well there's Global condemnation after
Israeli soldiers shot and killed
Palestinians scrambling for desperately
needed food in Gaza City Foreign
ministers Aid groups and rights
organizations have all denounced the
attack at least 112 people were killed
and around 700 injured many of them in
critical condition these are some of the
scenes uh as F filmed as Palestinians
gathered the bodies of the Dead the UN
which has repeatedly failed to secure a
ceasefire is calling for an independent
investigation in Gaza City an Israeli
air strike targeted a gathering of
Palestinians in the neighborhood of Al
zun at least five Palestinians were
killed there and in the South the
Israeli military has attacked a school
housing displaced Palestinians in hunus
at least three people killed there more
than 30,000 Palestinians have now been
killed in Israel's war on
Gaza Mahmud joins us now on the phone
from Rafa in southern Gaza honey uh good
to have you with us I hope you can hear
me uh a day now on from those tragic
events in the early hours of Thursday
morning north of where you are in Gaza
City uh and I'm wondering what you're
hearing about the people amongst the
hundreds injured who presumably are
still struggling to access medical care
uh even 24 hours after this event
happened
yes well this is the the time where uh
we can safely say that you don't have to
look for tragedy in in Goda tragedies
will find you and the reason I'm I'm
starting with this is because there are
so many family members who managed to
play the northern part and G they are
here but they had remaining family
members in the northern part and among
them were those who gathered at the
nauli roundabout to get uh aid from the
trucks coming in and they they just
heard about uh their relatives family
members who stayed there among the one
who were killed so it's just a very
difficult thing right now they've been
trying to get hold of of their family
members and and relatives within the
past few we to make sure they're still
alive they're not going to be affected
by the the spread of famine and today
happened they they heard about them
being killed very difficult situations
right now tragic indeed and those who
have been shot and and critically
injured are in the hospital right right
now at at the at risk of losing their
lives we're talking about an entire
health
facility asika uh complex and the other
hospitals in the northern par completely
an not operational don't have the
medical supplies necessarily needed for
immediate and proper medical
intervention there is insufficient
medical staff right now we heard from
one person inside the hospital and nurse
who describe that the injuries that
reported to the hospital are either shot
in the back or the abdominal area or the
neck just poses a threat to their life
and they they don't have the ability to
intervene and to save them they are left
on the floor of the hospital for hours
waiting for someone to take care of them
and unfortunately just the insufficient
medical staff and almost no medical
supplies made make it very difficult to
intervene close to 112 people so far
being killed the number is likely to
increase and already there are reports
emerging from Gaza that we're getting
close to 130 because of those who are on
the floor of the hospital either in a
coma right now or they have they have to
be rush into the life saving tools that
are non operational right now as well
because the entire hospital is not
working just very very difficult
situations right now for people have
been uh displaced internally more than
one time time and largely been
struggling with famine and extreme
shortage of school just this morning
about six0 children died of dehydration
and starvation and this because of the
ongoing intense bombing campaign and
also the the restrictions on the ground
to deliver a well uh you touch on it
there it is worth remembering and worth
reminding our viewers isn't it that at
the root of those events on Thursday was
a lack of the most basic of basic needs
food and as you say water in the Gaza
stripped people hungry so hungry that
they were willing to clamber over trucks
at risk of their uh lives to get their
hands on whatever they could and of
course 24 hours later no sign that these
events have changed the AIDS situation
in any way whatsoever people just as
hungry just as thirsty as they
were yes indeed and it's only worsening
by the hour and in fact when you when
when we talk to people and the kind of
responses that we get it is not
difficult to secure humanitarian trucks
into the uh the northern part and Gaza
and even here in the southern part if
only the Israeli military has the will
to do so but the fact that we're see uh
the ongoing intense bombing campaign the
zero safety guarantee for Aid workers on
the ground the supply chain mechanism
that is largely broken and the ongoing
restrictions on the ground it just gives
the feeling that it's all done it's all
done on a purpose in what looks like for
a lot of people it's a lionizing food
it's a way of using
starvation against largely
trti population and according to uh one
R Group just put it very unequivocally
that it all seas in one narrative not
only people are getting killed because
of the bombs but now starvation it all
feeds into one narrative which is
eventually exposion by making life very
unbearable on the ground for those who
decided to stay in Gaza and the northern
park well for that update as of hanim
Mahmud in Rafa many thanks to you